There appears to be a fundamental reality
that exists within the nature of women.
We question our own value.
Fostered perhaps by millennia of being kept
in the background, even the most successful women
on the planet still feel that they somehow aren't enough.
Amy Ahlers is a vivacious life coach who invariably
ran up against this negative inner dialogue
with her female clients.
It prompted her to write a book with the tongue-in-cheek
title called "The Big Fat Lies Women Tell Themselves."
Though the title is playful, the information is powerful
and addresses an epidemic dysfunction.
This is a subject that I believe
every female watching is going to relate to.
And it's something that seems to be endemic to
being feminine on this planet.
Absolutely.
And you've written this book,
which is really fun.
"Big Fat Lies Women Tell Themselves."
You also have some anecdotes to share with us as well.
You and a partner of yours have also created
the Inner Mean Girl Reform School.
That's right.
I think that's so cute.
(laughs)
And it is, all of this is very kind of tongue-in-cheek
and cute, but it's actually something grounded in serious
business.
You've coached a lot of people in your life
and you started seeing this pattern.
I did, yeah.
So I've been coaching for over a decade now.
Really women and men from all walks of life
and one of the things that I've noticed
was that no matter how smart, no matter how
successful, no matter how beautiful, no matter
how rich, no matter how thin even, women on some level
are being way too hard on themselves.
When I first started coaching, I really was coaching
women and men that were in a lower income bracket.
A lot of people that were struggling with their career.
When I first started coaching, I was younger, so my
clients were younger.
Like attract likes, as you know, your audience knows.
I thought, okay well I get it, these people are
really struggling, and as a coach I would help
them stop struggling.
Great.
As my career has grown, and as I started charging more
and more in my practice, I thought, oh okay, well now I'm
coaching the VPs and the people with the house
and the car and all this stuff.
They're not gonna be so hard on themselves.
But here's the truth, we're all hard on ourselves
despite our external circumstances.
We have women like Oprah saying that she's about to go
and receive her Emmy award and she's beating herself
up for her weight.
We have people like Elizabeth Gilbert, the author of
"Eat, Pray, Love" saying, "I'm not sure if I wrote
the right kind of books."
Every woman, and I've coached women in workshops
and one of the questions I ask is, "If you really knew me,
"you would know I'm being really hard on myself
about blank."
I'll ask everyone listening right now to really
fill in that blank.
Everybody always has an answer.
We're always beating ourself up about something.
And it hurts.
It's not laughing matter, like you said we have these
cute names, Inner Mean Girl Reform School, my book
"Big Fat Lies," but the truth is that this is painful.
It's painful to have this inner life and this inner critic
or inner mean girl as Christine Arylo and I call her,
sitting on your shoulder beating you up.
For all the things that you're not, comparing you
to so and so, all of these things.
Beating you up, saying you're not enough,
all these things.
It's painful.
What I'm really doing with this book
and the Inner Mean Girl Reform School is saying,
"Let's stop it, ladies.
"It's time for us to knock it off."
You draw from a lot of other studies
and information and one of the studies which
the title of it caught my attention has to do with the
declining happiness factor with women.
Here we are, more supposedly empowered than we've
ever been, and that everybody can pretty much afford to
take care of themselves on one level.
Right, basic needs.
Basic needs are--
Food, shelter, clothing, right we got it.
Yeah, we can do all that.
And we can even express ourself in the workforce.
Certainly much more so than in the past.
But still we're actually less happy than we were
35 years ago.
Talk about that for a bit.
What's going on here and also maybe
reflect it to other cultures that may not be quite as
far along as we are in these quote women's rights areas.
It's a fascinating report.
People can Google it.
It's the paradox of declining happiness.
In this report they really do these studies like you said,
of that over the last 35 years, women have become more
empowered and yet here we are with our happiness
declining, and I really feel like as society,
especially in Western culture, we bought this bill of goods.
The when-then lie.
This is one of the lies of my book as well.
When I get the car, when I get the job, when I get
the guy, when I get the house, then I'm gonna be happy.
When I lose 15 pounds, then I'm gonna be happy.
We have this happiness carrot always dangling
just out of reach.
It's even in the U.S. Constitution.
The pursuit of happiness.
What about happiness right now?
What's up with that?
I think that one of the things, I think that this was an
unintended, and Christine Arylo talks about this
beautifully, my partner at Inner Mean Girl Reform School.
It really is one of the unintended things of the feminist
movement, was that we were taught that we can do anything
and so now we feel like we have to do everything.
That, it's like all these things got added to our plate
and nothing got moved off our plate.
There's all these studies showing that women even though
we're also bringing home the bacon, so to speak,
we still are the ones that are doing the majority
of the housework.
Even though we're contributing so much to our families
and households, our finances there, we're still the ones
that are doing the grocery shopping, and taking care
of the kids for the most part.
We're supposed to be superwomen, and the reality is
that nobody can put up with that kind of pressure.
It's just an unrealistic expectation.
How does that conversely affect the men
in a relative scale of happiness, if there's a decline
effect for the women, what's happening with the men?
It's interesting, I'd love to see a study on that
actually, about men's happiness, but what I know from
my experience in coaching men is that there's also this
decline for men in their happiness.
We look at the studies on depression and we see that
twice as many women are affected by depression
than men.
Interesting.
But I think all of the levels are going up.
And I think some people would just say is it
just being overdiagnosed.
I think that could be partially true.
But I also think that this bill of goods that we've
been sold, that it's all about this, and we see this
in the collapse with the economy, it's like,
oh all these people thought if I just--
I'm gonna get into debt, going after this American
Dream, and then all of a sudden it comes all
crashing down, what's left?
I think for men it's also become very very confusing
because where is their role?
They're not the sole breadwinners anymore,
the majority of households.
Then what are they responsible for?
I think in my work with men there is that decline
of happiness as well.
There's more depression, there's this feeling of being lost.
There also is men being really really hard on themselves.
They're just hard on themselves in different ways.
I think the big fat lie for men that's probably number one
is "I'm a loser," or "I'm not contributing enough,"
or "I don't know how to show up as a man anymore
"'cause my woman, my partner is so powerful.
"How am I supposed to show up?"
I think all of this has really brought about a decline
for everybody in their happiness.
And I think it's time we really take a stand to really
bring it back.
I think so too.
How much is the prevailing culture, media, and so forth
really perpetuating these kinds of false ideals
that are taking people down?
Because of subliminal programming, if nothing else.
Absolutely.
When you look at the media, you can see
Jean Kilbourne's a wonderful media expert,
I've derived so much information from her,
she's incredible.
Jean Kilbourne?
Jean Kilbourne, yeah, and when you look at her stuff,
what you'll find is that the majority of the messaging
going on, the programming in advertising and in marketing
first of all the number one thing they're saying,
subliminally, subconsciously, is you are not enough.
Your wrinkles mean you're not enough, your
thighs mean you're not enough, and by the way
I have a solution for you, right?
Oh you can buy this cream, you can do this,
you can get Botox, all this crap that we're
being fed around that.
But the underlying message always is
you are not enough.
We've been fed that message since the birth,
really, since the day that we're born.
Kids--I have a four year old daughter, Annabella,
I see it already in the programming.
You're not, like--
Here, this doll's gonna make you happy.
All of this stuff goes into our subconscious mind.
Studies show that 92% of it goes into our
subconscious mind.
Only 8% do we register consciously.
There is just this huge onslaught of I am not
enough-ness going on in the world, and the media,
the cost is detrimental.
When we look at all the studies on anorexia
that's going on, the eating disorders that are going on
with young girls--
What percentage of the population
has an eating disorder now, among girls?
It's a good question, I don't know the statistic
but I know that's it's really really high--
I remember somewhere, five, 10
million young girls.
It's insane and I remember some statistic,
and don't quote me on this, but something like,
that most girls before the age of 12 have been
on a diet, the vast majority of girls before age 12.
Before age 12.
I look at my four--
That just makes me wanna cry, honestly.
'Cause I look at my four year old now and I see her at
ballet class looking in the mirror, in her tutu, and she's
just like--
Happy!
Glowing, and looking at herself and doing moves
and all this, and my inner critic, my inner mean girl
will come up and say, "So when's the
"self-loathing gonna start?"
When is she gonna be--
Not good enough.
I look funny, my tummy's too big--
Yeah, I'm too--
- [Voiceover] Or something.
Fill in the blank.
I'm too old, I'm too fat, my nose is too big.
My whatever it is.
It's such a shame when you see
the innocence in the little one--
I know.
Before they've been spoiled in that way.
Of course you're a conscious mom, so you're gonna
do what you can to see that that doesn't happen.
Absolutely, and I think modeling is one of the most
important things.
When I'm looking in the mirror, because I gotta tell you
especially with a four year old, she mimics me.
I'll catch her saying things that I've said.
Saying things to the dog that I've said to the dog,
saying things to her friends that I've said to my friends.
She now runs around and says, "Big fat lies,
"Mom you big fat lies, all these big fat lies,"
it's adorable and cute.
But when I look in the mirror I know one of the best
gifts that I can give her is saying, "Wow,
"I look really great."
And I try to say this actually out, and subconsciously
program my own subconscious mind to say
these affirmations, which I hugely believe in,
and I also have her doing this self-love hug so she's
hugging herself.
I love myself, I love me, we do gratitude practices
around the dinner table, all of those things.
But when she sees me looking in the mirror
and looking at my behind and seeing how do I
look in these jeans, do they fit okay,
and then I always try to say, 'cause I'll watch her
watching me and I'll say, "I look great!"
And she'll go, "Mom, you look so good in those jeans.
"You look beautiful, mommy."
I'm just trying to really model this, I'll let you know
how it works.
We get back in 10 years.
Yes, please do.
(laugh)
It is, it's such an important thing.
The best gift we can give our daughters is
really nurturing our own self-love.
Absolutely.
There was a study maybe 15,
maybe even more years ago now, there was a,
I don't know if it still exists, but there was a magazine
called "Omni" that was "Omni Health," and it was more of
the medical version of "Omni" and edition of it.
There was a study I never forgot because it was so profound
and in it it said, it was studying the perceptions
of women in men about themselves and what they
thought the opposite sex found attractive.
Fascinating.
It was fascinating, what they did,
the woman had to say, they'd have body types
and different weights and such, and you'd circle which one
you thought you were the most like.
Then you would circle the one, the next one would be
which kind were men most attracted to.
Of course the study ended up women thought that
they were usually heavier than they were, less desireable
than they were, and that whatever kind was preferable to
men was the opposite type of what they were.
Men conversely were the opposite.
Isn't that interesting?
They say, "This is my body type."
They choose the one that's bumped up,
a little more fit than they actually were.
What kind do women like?
They like that kind, they'd tickle that kind.
(laughs)
God bless all the men that are watching.
Good for you, guys.
It is, but lemme ask you, having coached
men and women alike, with men do you think it was a--
was that a true finding from your experience
or was that more a sense of bravado or--
trying to wish yourself into this
position of strength in your own mind?
What would that have been reflective of?
I think that there is especially with men because
they're so--
it's interesting because that was about body type.
I think that because women, we've been so indoctrinated
in that you're supposed to be thinner, younger,
more beautiful, and I think men have been indoctrinated
in, "I'm supposed to be more successful and more wealthy."
I think if that study would have shown how men rate
how wealthy they want people to be,
then I think they would have probably rated that
women want men that are more wealthy.
I remember actually from a psychology course
when I was in college, we actually did this where we--
one of my classes forever ago, that it was interesting
because what men were really attracted to
were the women that look like, and this was
all subconscious, that they thought could bear them
children, that looked fertile.
And that's been historic.
So that meant bigger hipper, bigger breasts,
all these things that women are trying to--
Bigger breasts I guess most women are
trying to do, but ask a bigger breasted woman,
myself included, it's gonna be a whole different story.
It was very different, and for women they looked at
the cues about the watches, the way that men were dressed,
they really wanted men that looked like they had more
income level or income potential.
I think that that's an interesting study and I'd
like to see that.
I've really found for men as well, they get
stuck in their mind at the age, in their body,
when they looked their best.
I've noticed this about my husband, he's gonna
kill me for saying this, but it's like,
he still thinks that he looks like he looked when
he was in his 20s.
He's in his 40s now and he's adorable and hot
and I love him, and he's dreamy to me,
and honey, no you're not a size 32 waist anymore.
Sweetie, it's not true.
But in his mind he's always a little bit shocked
and appalled, where I think with women they pay so
much attention to how their body looks.
They know exactly if they've gained five pounds
or lost five pounds.
I think it's an interesting thing.
I think men are much harder on themselves
about success and about career.
That's something I wanted to
bring up also, this was another--
a friend of mine told me about this because
I was beating myself up over something.
About again, 15, 20 years ago, I don't know
what was going on then, but we were just
having conversation, I was trying to get another part
of my media career going 'cause I've been a self-starter
and it's hard to get projects going sometimes.
He said, "Just go do it."
He said, "You don't have to be perfect."
He told me about a study that had been done with
Fortune 500 CEOs and it queried them on a number of things,
but number one it asked, "What's your greatest fear?"
Interesting.
And they said their greatest fear was
to be found out that they were a fraud, a fake.
That's right, big fat lie--
I'm a fraud.
Not competent.
That's it.
These are the ones that are running
the largest corporations, certainly in America,
some in the world.
And they thought they were gonna be discovered
to be frauds.
Does not surprise me.
I'm getting chills right now.
That does not surprise me at all.
One of the things that I've been doing for my book
has actually been interviewing other luminaries
about their big fat lies, and I've done some remarkable
interviews with people.
Please share a couple, if you're free to
I'd love to hear about this.
Men and women.
I've been interviewing women like Lisa Nichols
and Marci Shimoff, bestselling authors, and I've asked them
in their interview toward the end.
I've asked them about the big fat lies
they've uncovered in their work.
But then I also ask them about the big fat lies
that are still currently going on with them.
Arielle Ford's big fat lie actually sticks out to me.
Arielle Ford, she's the bestselling author
of "The Soulmate Secret."
She's the one that jumpstarted Deepak Chopra's career.
She's a publicist back in the day and then has
now moved into an author and speaker in her own right.
Her big fat lie that still runs the show is
I'm not doing enough.
The person who's jumpstarted Deepak Chopra.
This woman has so many projects going on.
She's incredibly successful.
To know that she's beating herself up with that lie
is, I'm just like, oh my gosh.
Where does it end?
It doesn't, that's the thing.
It doesn't.
This is the human experience for men and women alike.
But I think women in particular are just
more in touch with it.
They're more in touch and they're more honest
and vulnerable about those lies.
If we were to look at it, it's
when there was a time historically that
life was relatively simple.
Maybe you were a blacksmith or a blacksmith's wife.
The chores were expected.
I think that's why you're seeing this decline--
Decline.
In happiness.
When there was just a simple acceptance
and understanding of one's position, whatever that was,
and you did the best you could within it,
and you may struggle, there might not be enough.
You might have too many children.
But that really deep level of anxiety would have been
quite different.
More survival-oriented than just an all-pervasive
level of not being good enough.
I wonder if we could reflect back a couple hundred
and beyond years, if that would have even
registered, that kind of low level anxiety that we're
having today.
Right. I think you mentioned third world countries.
I think we can actually look at that from the perspective
of Western cultures.
What have you seen?
Versus third world nations.
As long as people's food, shelter, and clothing,
those basic needs when you look at
Maslow's hierarchy of needs, I believe it is,
and you really look at if you know your food
is covered, your shelter is covered, and your clothing
is covered, once those basic needs are met,
then you are not going to be seeing all of these things
about depression, the way that you do in Western societies
that are saying, "You're supposed to be more,
"have more, do more."
I think when we go and we see people in third world
nations, as long as they have those basic needs met, you're
gonna see a lot more joy.
You can see it on people's faces without
even doing a study.
I think we make the assumption as people that
are in Western society, that oh my gosh,
they must feel so miserable, they don't have the car,
they don't have this.
But really take a look.
When I've traveled in third world nations
what I notice is even though
there are other issues--
Of course.
You might still have domestic violence,
for example, in some of these cultures, a lot
of the cultures.
That's something to have to deal with.
That certainly is not good for a woman's self-esteem
but overall, the level of,
again I use the word anxiety,
that shows on our faces, it shows in the way we dart
around through our lives, the way our eyes move,
the way we drive, the women in a lot of these cultures
do not have that.
It's a much more fluid.
They may have sadness in them from stuff going on
at home, but there's a type of relaxation at the core.
I don't know if that's the right word.
You know what I'm saying?
I do.
I think that there's peace.
The lack of that edgy anxiety.
There's peace.
There's more
peace at the core.
Even of the sad
women.
I think that's right.
That have gone through some rough stuff
than what we're seeing with women now.
I know a lot of successful women.
My girlfriends have all done well
and have good careers going and everything.
And still there's this anxiety.
It's like a bottomless pit.
Of course, we could go into a highly esoteric conversation
at this point and talk about in terms of Maslow's
hierarchy of needs also, this connection for divine
and soul and spiritual expression.
Obviously going up is where we're gonna find
a lot of that.
It's going into ourselves.
In the interim, we need to find ways to actually
deal with it and manage it.
And this is really what I see you trying to do
and you're doing with your work and with your book.
Thank you. Thanks for noticing that.
You're exactly right.
I remember a while ago I heard about a study,
I think it's commonly known, this study that said
the number one fear people have is speaking in public.
You remember the fear of public speaking, right?
Oh god, big time, I have that.
You have that?
Hugely, I'm a total introvert.
Isn't that interesting.
That's so fascinating, isn't that fascinating.
Oh my gosh.
I remember a study that came out a few years ago
that I heard about that said that that's being replaced
by the fear of not having enough meaning in your life.
That's a good thing.
Living a life with no meaning.
That's a good thing, that's good sign.
I agree. I agree.
The money and the material things are not gonna be
the things that give you more meaning in your life.
Wired Magazine a few years ago was talking
about the new
it wasn't hierarchy of needs but what was going to be
the value in the future.
It said we're now entering a time when wisdom is gonna be
the primary commodity of value.
Interesting.
We're not seeing it too much yet in our political arena,
economic or any other place, but as you say that study
is a very good indication that in the hearts of the people
of the planet, that's already starting to take place.
This is really where I found my sweet spot with coaching.
Has been really helping people find what's meaningful
to you, what's gonna really on a soul level fulfill you.
I've coached people that are in the beginning of their
careers, and I've coached people that went and became
the lawyer or the doctor or the VP and got all the things
that they thought they wanted, only to find it's not what
I wanted at all.
Something's missing still.
Where's that shortcut for us?
Can't all of us, especially your viewers in your
audience here, all of them are dedicated to that
consciousness, and so I know, and I trust that they're
looking at all of these questions.
They don't necessarily need to go to a life coach
to have that.
But I gotta tell you, one of the questions that I use
most often in my private coaching is what do you want?
What do you want?
And just having people really get in tune with that.
They get the programming comes in and they're not
even in tune with that, looking at me
with two heads, "What do I want?"
What do I want?
Well lemme really think about that.
I've never thought about that before.
'Cause they've been on a track, you know?
In fact, Scott and I were just talking
about that on the way to this interview.
Oh interesting.
A friend of ours in particular, why can't
she just be honest with herself about what she really wants,
then she'd have a chance to perhaps bring that into her life
rather than what should I be?
What should I be saying to be the perfect person?
A woman of my stature, my age, shouldn't want that.
I should want this.
And the should should shoulds, we then talk about
big fat lies, not even being able to say what we want.
That's huge.
It is huge.
Everybody that's watching, take a moment.
What do you want?
I'll look at the camera.
Take a minute right now, write it out,
write it down, have a conversation with a friend.
Go to dinner tonight and say, "Let's have a
"what I want conversation."
Things like that really do revolutionize the path
that you're on.
Sometimes though we feel embarrassed
to think, what I really want is...
especially the empowered women, it's like, what I really
want is to take some time off and raise my child
or just not have to worry about money for a year or two.
All that.
A lot of women would say that if they give themselves
permission to be that vulnerable and not the superwoman.
Let's talk about the book and how it's structured,
what you're intending to do with it,
how women are utilizing it,
the Inner Mean Girl Reform School,
just give us an idea of what's going on with all of it.
What I started noticing in my work was not only
were people being hard on themselves, I started noticing
these themes that really women were lying
to themselves.
They weren't really lying to themselves, it was
really their inner critic or their inner mean girl
that was lying to them.
Really beating them up with big fat lies.
I started to become an investigator.
I would notice it everywhere.
My reticular activation system and my brain
got fired up.
That part of our brain that collects evidence
and starts noticing when you buy a new red Prius
you notice only red Priuses.
It's not that they were not there before,
it just wasn't important.
I began really uncovering all of these big fat lies.
I started writing them down and saying,
oh, that's another big fat lie.
The waitress that's delivering--
I have a, and I'm sure you have this gift too,
where if I'm whether I'm getting a coffee
or being waited on or striking up a conversation
with the person in line at the grocery store,
I would start finding out these big fat lies
that they would reveal to me and expose to me.
Being the wake up call coach as they call me.
I started making a list and really seeing
some of these themes.
That list then evolved into this book.
Which is 59 big fat lies.
59 big fat lies.
There are quite a number of levels
in which we deceive ourselves.
That's exactly right.
Let's take the top three deceptions.
Okay. I would say the top three.
Lie number one in my book is I am not enough.
Hugely.
It's a core lie that I think every single person on some
level, it all kinda comes down to that one.
I'm not enough.
It can also show up as I'm not worthy,
I'm not valuable.
I am not enough.
Just to be transparent with myself, I know
I turned in my book and I know we were
talking about just recently you turned in your book,
so I don't know if you had this going on for you,
but I turned in my book and in that same week
I launched an incredibly successful program called
the Inner Wisdom Golden Circle with Christine Arylo,
and then I got news that Girls Inc.
contacted me and said that I was being honored as a
Women Who Dare award.
Yes, fabulous, congratulations.
Thank you. So amazing.
What did I do?
I went into the shower and bawled my eyes out, sobbing.
What was your lie you were telling yourself?
I'm not enough.
I am not worthy of this.
You really thought that?
I did.
Especially writing this, as the author.
This is my style, everyone.
I'm just as transparent and open, because it's the truth.
I was in the sh--
my husband came in, he was like,
"Baby, what's going on?"
I'm like, "I don't deserve that award,
"I'm not enough, I wrote this book
"and here am I in this big fat lie."
I'm just in hysterics.
I'm laughing about it now, but--
Because you thought you were a fraud.
Exactly. I'm a fraud.
I'm not enough.
How could I ever live up to this?
We talked about this off camera.
I just hit the send button for this book that's
under contract and I,
since then, until I heard word this morning,
it's like, "Oh my god, what if people think
"that I'm an idiot, this is stupid,
"what if no one cares, what if they think
"it's poorly written?"
Again, I was doing the same thing to myself.
That's exactly right.
Waiting for someone else to validate
whether I've done something well.
It's my truth.
How can it be wrong if it's your truth?
But that's what we do.
That's what we do, it's the human experience.
I think it's always, I always tell my clients
it's a good sign when your inner critic shows up.
It's a good sign when your inner mean girl's beating
you up with big fat lies because it's means you're growing.
It means you're growing, it means you're stretching,
it's mean you're risking, you're getting out of
your comfort zone.
So there I am about to receive this award and I have
all this stuff going on and I'm just in hysterics.
Of course I do my own processes and my own work.
It's not about--
The "Big Fat Lies" book it's not something that
you read it once and then I'm cured, I'm never
gonna be hard on myself again.
I'm not gonna BS people about that, absolutely not.
It's about the human experience.
And having all of the tools in your toolbox
to take out in those moments when you're
beating yourself up.
I would like to get the next two lies
and then go into structurally how you work with people
on that.
Can you give a couple of examples?
Perfect. I'm not enough is one.
I'm unlovable. You're right.
It just always makes me wanna cry because
that particular lie isn't something that I've said to
myself, but I have coached so many people who have
bought into that lie, and a lot of them are people
who are single that don't wanna be single.
They're ready to have that relationship
and they don't have it.
A lot of them have parents or other influences that
told them that kinda horrible stuff when they were
growing up.
The I'm unlovable lie is out there in a huge way.
That is very sad.
It is. It's sad. Very very sad.
The other one that I would say is the comparison one.
So, so and so's so much better than me.
Or could also show up as I'm so much better than so and so.
That comparison lie.
The comparison queen as we call her,
in Inner Mean Girl Reform School.
Hugely popular amongst our inner critics and inner
mean girls.
And really we can beat ourselves up comparing ourselves
to other people all the time.
It doesn't matter whether the person
is saying, "That person is so much better than me," or
"I'm so much better than the other person."
It's just the flip side of the exact same
low self-esteem thing.
That's exactly right. And it's sneaky.
I've had clients that are like, "Oh no, that's
"my self-esteem, that's my self-confidence,
"that's my truth, I'm so much better than so and so."
But judgment doesn't usually indicate
high self-esteem.
Honey, that is not. That's right.
That is not your inner wisdom.
That is not true self-confidence.
That is not it at all.
What's the cost of it?
It's keeping you separate from everyone.
People who are really buying into that lie find
they don't have really close relationships.
They don't experience the feeling of being known and seen.
They're the people that are not transparent at all.
They don't have people they feel like can
be vulnerable with.
They're too busy being superior to everybody else.
Huge cost.
I like to say it's like you're being seated
at the far table all the time.
Just out of reach from everyone else.
It's not fun to be that.
Very interesting.
So those are the top three.
And now let's look at how when you're working with the book
how you would go about working with it and
use a couple of examples with people.
Sure, you got it.
The way the book is structured is it has the lie
and then it has the truth.
That's usually where I tell some sort of story,
either a personal story because I'm an open book,
or a story about one of my clients that I coached
around this lie.
And then there's actually a coaching challenge
for you to do.
I am a huge believer in let's not just talk about it,
let's get down and roll up our sleeves
and do the work around it.
So there's a coaching challenge for every single lie
and then there's an affirmation that people can use
and then some sort of inspiring quote from someone
that I admire in the world, whether it's from Gandhi
to Oprah to you name it.
Some sort of inspiring quote.
So there's really 59 tools in the book.
I always like to say it's one of those books
you can read cover to cover or you can keep
in the bathroom, dare I say, and flip open to
a lie at any time.
Or go through the table of contents.
The lie that you're relating to in the moment.
That's exactly right.
That's plaguing you in the moment.
You really do, there's another element to it.
That is you work with one's own innate inner wisdom.
This is big, it's not like you're telling them.
You're telling them once you've identified this,
there's another part that sits on the other shoulder
that is incredibly wise.
And if you can open yourself to that for just a moment,
turn your head away from the mean girl,
and let's talk about that
and maybe some of the things you've seen in terms of
transformation regarding a person accessing their
own wisdom.
Absolutely.
One of the things maybe this would be a good time for me
to just talk about the three step process
that I've developed.
This is something that's in the introductions
of the book and you can use regardless of the lie
that's going on.
This is a three step process.
The first step is to say, "What is my inner critic saying?"
"What is my inner mean girl saying?"
People often are a little perplexed, like,
"I don't wanna admit what's going on there.
"I don't wanna say all these negative things.
"I believe in the law of attraction.
"I don't wanna say these negative things."
Guess what?
If you are feeling any sort of negative emotion,
there is a big fat lie present.
Your inner critic is present, she or he is beating you up
in that moment.
When we resist it, it persists.
It's so important, step one, to just bring all of those
lies out of the darkness and into the light
so they can be healed.
Step one, what is my inner mean girl saying?
What is my inner critic saying?
Then step two is,
I always encourage people to close their eyes,
take a deep breath, get quiet, and say,
"What does my inner wisdom know?"
I've asked that question to my clients.
What does your inner wisdom know?
Thousands of times over the last 11 years of coaching.
I've gotta tell you,
amazing phenomenal fall off my chair things
that our inner wisdom knows.
When we just get quiet enough because we're
our own best coach, we really are our own best
mentor, we're our own best coach.
I am all for people feeling really empowered
around this.
So really getting in tune with your inner wisdom
is so incredibly powerful.
Just getting quiet enough, and this is a thing
that's really missing in Western culture,
getting quiet enough to hear that inner wisdom.
What's coming up, I'm thinking about this,
once you free these emotions that are sitting in the
background running on your operating system anyway,
unconsciously or consciously, once you free them, does that
exact same process of freeing that take a certain amount
of pressure off the psyche that allows the wisdom
to actually come in?
That's exactly right.
Beautifully put. Beautifully put.
I always say to my clients, especially when I'm coaching
them, I was on a show the other day
and ran the actual host through the process.
It was interesting and this is where having another
person ask you these questions can be really
really powerful and working in partnerships
like I do on my teleclasses and workshops.
Because I always say, "Wait for it."
Because there'll be a pause, and they'll say,
"That's pretty much what she's saying."
And I go, "Mm-hm, what else?"
And then it's like they really sink in.
Oh wow, I'm not enough often will come out
at the moment, or I'm totally failing.
It's like peeling an onion and if you can really
allow yourself to go through one to two pauses
where you think, "I'm done,"
you can do this writing as well.
What's my inner mean girl saying to me?
What's my inner critic saying to me?
Write write write write write write write.
You list 'em all out and then you'll be like, "Okay."
And then ask again, "What else?"
Actually she's really saying this to me.
You get to those core foundational,
like I call them in the book, motherlode lies,
like I'm not enough or I'm unlovable,
or I'm in this all alone, or I'm gonna end up homeless
on the street corner because I'm failing.
Whatever it is, really getting down to those cores.
When you feel that sense of like,
okay, I'm at the bottom level here.
That's a great place then to close your eyes and say,
"And what is my inner wisdom now?"
It's powerful.
It really is just like
all of those lies come out of the darkness into the light
and then they lose their power.
They lose their power.
Also in that emptying out, it allows
for the other voice to even come in.
It's almost as though people have such a hard shell
exterior protecting this story of who they think they are.
Good bad or indifferent, just protecting a story.
Rather than allowing their organic feelings to really
flow through.
Beautifully said.
I can see why
that process works so well.
Even if it seems like, all right, I'm supposed
to tell myself blah blah blah.
But no, there's a lot of profundity behind all of this.
Simple but powerful.
I'm all about simplicity because this three step process.
So step one, what's my inner critic saying?
Step two, what is my inner wisdom know?
And step three, is to repeat out loud if possible
what your inner wisdom said while doing some
sort of physical gesture.
It's almost like EFT or something.
It's a neurolinguistic programming technique, right?
For me, I tap on my heart, I have clients--
one client that does this beautiful wave of her hand.
I have other clients that kinda go like this.
And you repeat it out loud and lock it in
with that physical gesture.
Then what you find is that you can actually just do that
physical gesture and find your inner wisdom kinda
coming through.
So you're in the meeting and all of a sudden and you can
just kinda look up a little bit and it's like shoop,
your inner wisdom's right there.
Those are the precepts.
And there's been a lot of evidence on the
efficacy of EFT and all of this.
Yes, absolutely.
So that's nice. So you lock it in.
Yeah, you lock it in with a physical gesture.
When I'm working with people or when I have them
working in partners, what we do is we'll actually ask
and I have the other person repeat back their inner wisdom
and just say it to them.
And I can't tell you how many women I've seen just sobbing
over hearing the truth.
I was doing this with a client, the I'm unlovable lie.
We'll talk about that for a minute.
When we were doing this work together, we named her
inner mean girl Loveless Lulu.
Actually at Inner Mean Girl Reform School we have
women draw their inner mean girls and draw
their inner critics so they can really start getting that
this is not the truth of who they are.
I remember reading one, you have someone
who's just slovenly with cigarette hanging out
of their lips.
That's right, so it's Loveless Lulu, right?
She has a cigarette in one hand and martini
in the other and she's like, "You'll never be loved, kid."
It's this real, can you just see her?
When Loveless Lulu was in the driver's seat,
what did this client of mine do?
Attracted all the guys to prove that she was unlovable.
The guys that weren't available.
The guys that were married.
The guys that would say one thing and then do another.
She just, when Loveless Lulu chose her dates,
she was not going out with anybody that was ever
going to show her love.
During that process, we really uncovered,
okay, what is my inner wisdom now?
Of course, your inner wisdom knows that you're lovable.
We can go even beyond that and really say,
"What else does my inner wisdom know?"
My inner wisdom knows that it's time for me
to stop dating unavailable men.
Your inner wisdom can throw down, as I like to say,
hardcore truths with you.
It's not just about, you're amazing,
these fluffy things.
When we get quiet enough, our inner wisdom
might also say, "Get out of the relationship, honey."
It might also say, "Put down the cookie,
"you've had enough."
Whatever the case may be.
Our inner wisdom will really say these things,
but they'll say it with compassion and love,
whereas our inner mean girl might say the exact
same thing but it's shaming, it's judgmental,
and it feels terrible.
But our inner wisdom speaks to us, it's this space of truth
and groundedness.
With this client, as she started really working
with her inner wisdom and listening to her intuition,
is that, "Should I date that guy,
"should I not date that guy?"
Oh, lemme really reframe who I'm being in this moment.
If I really believed I'm lovable, how would I show up?
Really started doing a lot of mirror work
with herself, with saying in the mirror, "I am lovable."
Love doing visualizations.
This is one of the ones in the book with the I'm lovable
is imagine sitting across from yourself.
Just closing your eyes and imagine sitting
across from yourself.
And just looking into your own eyes,
and saying, "Sweetie, I see the disappointments,
"I see the things that haven't work out,
"and let's celebrate for a moment the wins.
"You are lovable."
Just starting to really say that to youself.
Saying it to yourself. 40 days.
See what happens.
This client of mine within a year was married.
Not only married to a great guy by the way,
not only married but she actually got married on
a television show.
On one of those E! shows of all things.
She really was lovable in front of the
whole world.
That's right.
She was fully lovable in front of the whole world.
There is so many ways that that wisdom
part can show up, and I know that for many years what
I would do is just go to eagle's view
and I would watch myself and the other person or people
or situation almost just watching from above
almost like a chessboard where you're just seeing
everyone's just kind of maneuvering to and fro--
Beautiful.
And they're either backtracking
or they're moving forward, and no judgment.
And just watch myself as a detached observer
and my own reactions with that compassion.
Absolutely.
That was just a little way that worked for me.
The point is that wisdom is there in every human being--
Everyone.
And will show itself to you
how you need it to.
That's right.
That's one of the reasons I really advocate for
a daily practice.
One of the big fat lies that I have in the book,
I have kind of different sections in the book
and I have big fat lies about spirit.
And one of the ones in that section is
I don't need a spiritual practice.
I think that's complete BS--
I agree.
And I'm sure the majority of the people
watching this right now have some sort of
spiritual practice, and I really encourage a daily
spiritual practice, and I encourage you to find one
that works for you.
It does not need to mean that you're on a cushion
meditating for an hour.
I know very few people that have time in their lives
to meditate for 60 minutes in silence.
Really creating something.
For some of my clients it's dancing to their favorite
song in the morning, for others it's taking a gratitude walk
in nature.
That's where they feel connected to their spirit.
Whatever works for you,
and doing it on a daily basis so that you're
nurturing the relationship with your inner wisdom.
Absolutely.
So important.
There we've talked about three,
that means there are 56 other lies in this book
and we can't get around to the other 56 right now.
People have to pick up a copy.
Also, tell us a little bit about the
Inner Mean Girl Reform School site.
What's that all about?
Inner Mean Girl Reform School, I founded it
with Christine Arylo, who is the author of
"Choosing Me Before We," an amazing book.
We really got together and decided that there was
so much that we had in common about our message.
About women stopping being hard on themselves.
About women starting to really love themselves.
We came up with this term the inner mean girl
together on a hike actually one day.
We were like, it is, it's like the mean girls
in the hallways.
I always described my inner critic as she's like
a seventh grader that decides not to speak to me
one day.
It's really brutal, all of this stuff that--
brutality that goes in junior high.
That's what I was dealing with on a daily basis
inside my head before I did all these tools that I teach
people.
Again, she still shows up but I know how to work
with her now.
And so we came up with Inner Mean Girl Reform School
and it's a 10 step process that we take women through.
We have live classes every once in a while.
We also have a home study kit.
We've had hundreds of women go through this school
with phenomenal results.
Women that are starting to really lead
with their inner wisdom.
When that shows up, we've had women get out of
relationships, attract relationships, improve their
marriages, we had a woman lose 25 pounds as an act
of self-love.
We have women who start new careers.
We have women who end careers.
Whatever it is really coming from that inner wisdom.
And it's so inspiring.
It's incredibly inspiring and I feel so blessed
that I get to do that and lead that work.
It's really a phenomenal 10 step process.
That sounds great.
Sounds like you're busy, and you are doing enough.
(laughs)
Right, thank you!
And Stuart Smalley looking in the mirror
and saying, "I am enough, I am lovable."
I know, and, "Gosh darn it, people like me."
(laughs)
Exactly.
But you are doing it.
You're doing the real work.
Thank you.
Is there anything else before we go here
that I haven't thought to ask you yet
regarding the book or the site or
any further insights you'd like to share?
Great question.
I think that I would just like to say, for
everybody that's watching, that you are lovable,
that you are enough, and that you are doing enough.
If I could give people just one tip, one takeaway
from this, it would be that you're not alone.
That you're not the only one that's being hard
on yourself, and that there is another way of being.
Just to tune into your inner wisdom on a daily basis
will change your life.
It's changed my life and it's changed hundreds
of other women's lives too.
Absolutely, and if virtually every
other woman's doing it, then there's something wrong
with the larger picture, not you.
Yeah, that's right.
Very good.
Thank you so much for your time.
Thank you. Thank you so much.
It appears that it all comes down to how we
raise our daughters from here forward.
If you too are hard on yourself, you can begin to
break the cycle of negative beliefs by checking into
Amy's work at bigfatliesbook.com.
She does workshops as well if you'd like to have
a more hands on experience.
Until next time, thanks for watching CMN.